The Financial Technology (fintech) industry has taken the global economy by storm in the recent years. Mobile financial apps and online payments are becoming more relevant compared to traditional cash transactions. In Mauritius, the development of fintech products has recently surged, with the introduction of the MAUCAS QR and IPS switch by the Bank of Mauritius, it enabled companies to develop instant payment technologies. Emtel, a Mauritian telecommunications and network company has also decided to join the Fintech Market in May 2022, when it launched its app named Blink. Blink enables citizens to seamlessly do interbank transfers, MAUCAS QR payments, pay merchants, pay bills, do peer to peer transfers all within the same app. Although Blink was not the first of its kind in the island, it did bring some innovations with it such as the dynamic qr code and cross-platform interoperability.

P1: Blink is a digital payment application which has integrated the Bank of Mauritius’ IPS switch and MAUCAS QR infrastructure. Blink does not operate like traditional digital wallets; it does not hold any customer funds. Instead, transactions are made directly between customers’ linked bank accounts. This reduces risk for Blink as funds remain with regulated banking institutions at all times. When registering for Blink, individuals go through mobile number authentication and Know Your Client (KYC) verification such as ID and proof of address verification. This ensures compliance with policies and AML: anti money laundering regulations.
From a business perspective, Blink generates revenue through commission fees charged on transactions, merchant service charges and partnerships with other companies. The profitability of Blink depends heavily on transaction volumes and merchant turnovers. While Emtel is continuously innovating and scaling Blink, it is also important to note that Mauritius has a rather small population, and this may limit the scalability of Blink. Strategic ecosystem integration is what is necessary to make Blink become a more valuable product. Innovations like an ecommerce checkout payment gateway can help blink get more transactions and therefore increasing profitability.

P2: The technological infrastructure by which the Blink app operates is as follows: the mobile app connects directly to Emtel’s telecommunications network and the national payment processing system of the Bank of Mauritius. The application is used as an intermediary that allows users to process instant transactions in real time. It allows users to benefit from instant transactions which is faster than banks which sometimes takes hours or even days to process inter-bank transactions. Blink provides increased efficiency for SME’s as transaction speeds matter for them. The platform operates smoothly if users have a stable internet connection. The reliability of Blink relies heavily on Emtel’s telecommunications infrastructure and the Bank of Mauritius’ digital payment systems. Any downtime at Bank of Mauritius level may prevent users or merchants from using the app properly or transacting. For example, when the IPS switch is down, inter-bank transfers cannot be processed. 
In terms of security, Blink has various cybersecurity and compliance measures and policies to reduce fraud and attacks from hackers. This includes OTP’s, KYC and background checks before onboarding customers, data encryptions and highly secure and regulated server environments. Encryption makes sure that financial information cannot be easily accessed. However, despite these precautionary measures, the application is still at risk of major cybersecurity threats such as phishing and social engineering.
Blink’s infrastructure facilitates and offers a new way of transacting effectively for both individuals and merchants offering security, speed and reliability.

1.⁠ ⁠Main Regulatory Authority
•⁠  ⁠source : Bank of Mauritius. (2023). National Payment Systems Oversight Framework.

2.⁠ ⁠National Payment Systems Act 2018
•⁠  ⁠source : Government of Mauritius. (2018). National Payment Systems Act 2018.

3.⁠ ⁠AML/CFT and FATF Compliance
•⁠  ⁠source : FATF. (2021). Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Measures – Mauritius.

4.⁠ ⁠Data Protection 
•⁠  ⁠source : Government of Mauritius. (2017). Data Protection Act.

5.⁠ ⁠About Blink Mobile Money
•⁠  ⁠source : Emtel. (2024). Blink Mobile Money Services.

[569 words]
