Blink by Emtel operates within a regulated financial structure under the supervision of the Bank of Mauritius (BoM) as it is a mobile money services app. In Mauritius, mobile money services are classified as payment services and hence it is overlooked by the BoM to make sure it abides by the regulatory environment and framework and are governed primarily under the National Payment Systems Act 2018. For FinTech products like Blink by Emtel, the Bank of Mauritius acts as a licensing authority to ensure that they have financial stability, payment system safety and efficiency, consumer protection and AML/CFT compliance and makes sure that Blink does not pose systematic risks to the financial system. In terms of mobile financial services, regulation is important as Blink handles customer money and sensitive data which may bring fraud and scam risks. However, while abiding to regulations boost credibility and consumer trust, it may also increase compliance costs and create barriers to entry for smaller FinTech businesses.

As mentioned earlier, Blink operates under the National Payments Act 2018, which states that any money services app must obtain authorization from the Bank of Mauritius to offer money services. Under this Act, Blink must meet the minimum capital requirements set by the BoM and customer funds should be safeguarded using appropriate methods. It also states that Blink should implement risk management frameworks, including operational, liquidity and cybersecurity risk controls. Moreover, the act states that BoM has the right to supervise, inspect, impose conditions, or revoke licenses. Operating under this act builds customer trust but slightly increases compliance costs. 

Mauritius follows international standards set by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) which requires payment service provides like Blink to implement strict AML/CFT measures. Blink must conduct Know Your Customers (KYC) procedures, apply Customer Due Diligence (CDD) procedures, monitor transactions and report fraud activities to assigned authorities. These measures were strengthened after Mauritius was grey listed in 2020. These strict AML/CFT measures increases Mauritius’ international credibility and reduces financial crime risks but it also increases operational costs because Emtel would have to invest in employee trainings and inductions to make sure these measures are implemented.

Blink is also subjected to a data protection framework which is the Data Protection Act 2017. Under this framework, Blink is required to obtain user consent, ensuring high level security and notifying authorities if there are any breaches. These measures enhance user confidence and trust in Blink, particularly because the app handles sensitive data and transactional information. However, to follow this act, Blink must invest in cybersecurity infrastructure which means more secure servers, encrypted data and advanced software to track data usage and detect breaches. This law has clear rules, if not followed, there are heavy penalties, but it can be lenient for smaller businesses.

Lastly, consumer protection is another aspect of Blink to ensure transparency of fees and provide clear terms and conditions. However, customers and users may still face fraud or scam risks such as phishing, pharming or cyber attacks if they are not digital literate. While the Bank of Mauritius and Blink both have implemented frameworks to safeguard customers, these measures alone are not enough without customers’ knowledge about ongoing threats and frauds. Furthermore, even when these safeguarding measures are present, they do not ensure 100% of customer protection as practical protection is partly dependent on users’ awareness as well.
